draft:Feature/design doc avery v2 (#4)
hashsequence/Linux-Job-Worker: README.md

* A uuid (universal unique identification) will be generated and a folder called START-\<startTimeStamp\>will be created, two logs called stdout.log and stderr.log will be created

* the start command will execute the job and return with the uuid, pid, startTimeStamp, if it fails the process table will be correspondingly updated

* goroutines should manage running processes in the background (outputing into logs, updating dataStore)

* when the job is done the process table will be updated

```
type StartRequest {
    //path of a program or executable
    string command
    //arguments to invoke program or executable with
    []string args 
    // environment variables for the execution
    //OPTIONAL variable
    []string env
    // current working directory of the execution
    //OPTIONAL variable, default will be the working directory of server 
    string dir 
}

type StartResponse {
    //process Id of the running process executed by the command
    //will be 0 if process failed to execute
    int pid 
    //univeral unique identifier that tags each unique request made to server
    string uuid
    //starting time of start request
    string startTimeStamp
    string status

>     int statusCode

Reviewer: what are the possible status codes?

Author: my original intention was handling the errors via grpc codes, so if the response failed somehow it would be reflected in grpc error format, would it be okay to remove the status and statusCode fields from the response types then

    

}

func Start(StartRequest) returns(StartResponse)
```

#### Stop

> * The User should be able to stop the request based on the pid
> 
> * When stopped the pid should be killed 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The User should be able to stop the request based on the uuid

* When stopped the process should be killed 
```

* A response will be sent to client indicating process have been stopped along with the contents of the log

* job should be marked as completed with the exit code in the dataStore

```
type StopRequest {
    string uuid
}

type StopResponse {
    []byte stdout
    []byte stderr
    bool isKilled
    string endTimeStamp
    string status
    int statusCode
}

func Stop(StopRequest) returns(StopResponse)

```

#### Query 

* There will be only two types of Query

    * QueryOneProcess:

>         * return the logs of a job using a valid pid (if it was started) or uuid, along with ProcessInfo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        * return the logs of a job using a valid uuid, along with ProcessInfo
```

    * QueryRunningProcesses:

        * get a list of job's executed and processInfo for the jobs

```
type ProcessInfo {
    int pid 
    string startTimeStamp 
    string endTimeStamp
    string processName 
    bool isRunning 
    int exitCode
    string status
}

type QueryOneProcessRequest {
    string uuid
}

type QueryOneProcessResponse {
    processInfo procInfo
    []byte stdout 
    []byte stderr 
    string status

>     int statusCode

Reviewer: if these represent the status of request processing (success/failure), then they should be returned as gRPC errors instead

* Client should be able to query result of the job execution and fetch the logs

## Design Document

### Limitations And Scope

#### Data Management
Though the use of a database to store persistant data would be ideal, I will be instead storing the outputs and error outputs into logs stored on 
the file system of the linux worker. The logs will be generated at start time with the foldername \<uuid\>-\<startTimeStamp\>
The client can query the server to see what is running to determine what can be killed and a query a list of jobs that were executed,
or the client can store response data from server.

#### Scale
The scope of this project would only deal with a single linux worker server interfacing with multiple clients

### API Design

* The client will have an Command Api that takes in three types of request, Start, Stop, and Query

* The client can then execute the commands over the server via Execute APIs'

#### Start

* The Start command is called with a StartRequest that has the client's command and required arguments and optional env, dir params

> * A uuid (universal unique identification) will be generated and a folder called START-\<startTimeStamp\>will be created, two logs called PID-<pid>-stdout.log and PID-<pid>-stderr.log will be created

Reviewer: no need to include `PID` in log file names, it will complicate the implementation.
the server can store the PID in its memory, the client should only care about the UUID

> * the start command will execute the job and return with the uuid, pid, startTimeStamp, if it fails to execute then a log called FAILED-\<endtimestamp\>.log will be created to indcate that the job failed to execute, and the process table will be correspondingly updated

Reviewer: > if it fails to execute then a log called FAILED-\<endtimestamp\>.log will be created to indcate that the job failed to execute

Is this log necessary?
The server can keep track of the status in its process table

Author: i thought of using the logs to persist that information if the server shutsdown, but I can see why its not needed, I'll remove that from the doc

* goroutines should manage running processes in the background (outputing into logs, updating dataStore)

> * when the job is done it will generate a log called END-\<endtimestamp\>.log, and the process table will be updated

Reviewer: similarly here, this marker log file seems unnecessary

```
type StartRequest {
    //path of a program or executable
    string command
    //arguments to invoke program or executable with
    []string args 
    // environment variables for the execution
    //OPTIONAL variable
    []string env
    // current working directory of the execution
    //OPTIONAL variable, default will be the working directory of server 
    string dir 
}

type StartResponse {
    //process Id of the running process executed by the command

>     //will be 0 if process failed to execute

Reviewer: there should be some kind of `status` field to mark failure directly

Author: I will also attach the status field to all responses, to have a field that stores information about the status in general

    int pid 
    //univeral unique identifier that tags each unique request made to server
    string uuid
    //starting time of start request
    string startTimeStamp

}

> func ExecuteStart(StartRequest) returns(StartResponse)

Reviewer: No need to prefix every RPC with `Execute`. This can be just `Start`.
Same for other RPCs below

Author: okay will change the naming

```

#### Stop

* The User should be able to stop the request based on the pid

* When stopped the pid should be killed 

* A response will be sent to client indicating process have been stopped along with the contents of the log

* job should be marked as completed with the exit code in the dataStore

```
type StopRequest {

>     int pid

Reviewer: client should use the UUID to identify jobs instead of PID

}

type StopResponse {
    []byte stdout
    []byte stderr
    bool isKilled
}

func ExecuteStop(StopRequest) returns(StopResponse)

```

#### Query 

* There will be only two types of Query

    * QueryOneProcess:

        * return the logs of a job using a valid pid (if it was started) or uuid, along with ProcessInfo

    * QueryRunningProcesses:

        * get a list of job's executed and processInfo for the jobs

```
type ProcessInfo {
    int pid 
    string startTimeStamp 
    string endTimeStamp
    string processName 
    string uuid
    bool isRunning 
    int exitCode
}

type QueryOneProcessRequest {
    int pid 

>     string uuid

Reviewer: client should only deal with UUIDs

}

type QueryOneProcessResponse {
    processInfo procInfo
    []byte stdout 
    []byte stderr 
}

type QueryRunningProcessesRequest {
    //will be empty since the server just needs to verify its a QueryRunningProcessesRequest
}
    
type QueryRunningProcessesResponse {
     ProcessInfo[] processTable 
}

func ExecuteQueryOneProcess(QueryOneProcessRequest) returns(QueryOneProcessResponse)
func ExecuteQueryRunningProcesses(QueryRunningProcessesRequest) returns(QueryRunningProcessesResponse)

```

### Implementation Overview 

* Using GRPC so the above methods and types with be generated via protocol buffers (will be using libprotoc 3.11.4)

* the rpc APIs' will be all unary to keep the client - server communication simple

####  DataStore

> * we can use Map in Go to implement a set of structs to store process info and use sync.mutex to handle concurrent transactions, the key to the map will be \<uuid\>-\<startTimeStamp\>

Reviewer: Why use `startTimeStamp` in the map key?

Author: will change that to just using uuid

     ```go

        type ProcessInfo struct {
		    pid int
		    startTimeStamp string
		    endTimeStamp string
		    processName string
		    uuid string
		    logPath string
		    stdoutPath string
		    stderrPath string
		    isRunning bool
		    exitCode int
	    }

        type ProcessTable map[string]*ProcessInfo
        type pidToUuid map[int]string

>         type uuidToPid map[string]int

Reviewer: these shouldn't be needed

Author: will remove

        drwxr-xr-x  23 root             root                        4096 Aug 17 16:01 ..
        dr-xr-xr-x   9 root             root                           0 Aug 24 11:41 1
        dr-xr-xr-x   9 root             root                           0 Aug 26 16:40 10
        dr-xr-xr-x   9 avwong13         avwong13                       0 Aug 26 16:40 1003
        dr-xr-xr-x   9 root             root                           0 Aug 26 17:08 1004
        dr-xr-xr-x   9 avwong13         avwong13                       0 Aug 25 23:08 10202
        dr-xr-xr-x   9 avwong13         avwong13                       0 Aug 25 23:09 10256
        dr-xr-xr-x   9 avwong13         avwong13                       0 Aug 24 13:25 10485
        ```

* The server will store process info of jobs that were requeste in memory in the dataStore and have logs for each request named \<uuid\>-\<startTimeStamp\> folder

* concurrent go routines to handle cmd executions starting and finishing 

* killing of pid can be implemented via os.Process.Signal() by sending a kill signal to process

* Querys will use information from dataStore and logs from server

> * I~~mplement simple logging for server, as in the server stdout and stderr will output into a log in the server's filesystem~~

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Implement simple logging for server, as in the server stdout and stderr will output into a log in the server's filesystem
```

    
    * Remarks: don't worry about the logs of the server itself, they can go to stdout/stderr if needed, something like systemd can redirect those to a file.

* \<uuid\>-\<startTimeStamp\> can be implemented like this for example:

    ```go
    import(
        "fmt"
        guuid "github.com/google/uuid"
        "time"
        "strings"
    )

    func main() {
        requestId := guuid.New().String() + "-" + strings.ReplaceAll(time.Now().Format("20060102150405.000000.000000000"),".","")
        fmt.Println(requestId)
    }

    ```

#### Client

* client is responsible for constructing the commands to be passed to server via the Execute APIs'

* client is responsible for interpreting response from Execute APIs'

* client should remember the information from the response of the requests from the server

### Authentication

* Using standard GRPC tsl/ssl encryption and authentication via certificates

* we will be using grpc with mutual tls

* certificates will be generated using openssl and self-signed, though in a real production environment, certificates will be generated and signed 

> by a valid certificate authority (CA). there is :

Reviewer: update this to match the `Mutual TLS` section below

        * when a server or client asks to have the certificate validated, the server/client sends a request (.csr) to the ca to create a signed certificate

* In this project we will be making things simpler, since I am the one building the client and server I can make my own ca.crt + ca.key and have it sign
 the server.crt and client.crt, which is self signing. In production, I would probably have a legitimate certificate authority and a legitimate ca.crt

 * the format of the crt wil be [x509](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X.509) 

 * will be using openssl to generate these certificates

### Contentious Issues

* Should the client remember commands they executed and remember the pids, starting timestamp, process command?

    * yes, but not across restarts

* Will logs that are too old be deleted by server, or should the logs just stay in the file system storage, should this be within the scope of the project?
    
    * log cleanup is not in scope

* For the output of logs, should the should the contents of the log be loaded into a string array in the response message, or should I leave it as string?
    
    * will be using []byte

> * Memory management of dataStore: Since running jobs over time and having the server keeping track of new entries of jobs in the data Store gets expensive, should their be a process to delete entries or truncate the data Store over time? Perhaps clear the dataStore after a period of time passed? Maybe delete jobs that have been done for a period of time?

Reviewer: don't worry about it for this project
